---
layout: post
title: About Programming Language
categories:
- pl
tags:
- python
- java
- cpp
- c
---

# Generally speaking

1. **CODE.** This is the most important thing. Whatever language you
decide
to use, you have to use it! At least everyday. I make sure I get in at
least 2 hours a day of coding. Since I am not a professional coder, this
is vital to my success (er, future success, i'm still learning). When I
get "wired in" I usually block access to my favorite sites in
"/etc/hosts" so I can stay focused. Once I get going, I'm usually very
productive, especially in python wink
2. **Study!** I read a lot about programming. There are a bunch of blog
you
can goto and read professional opinions about techniques. I like going
to reddit.com/r/programming for cool stuff.
3. **Read lots of source code.** This is what I do most of the time,
especially when I am trying to figure something out. Here, grep is your
friend. Often I find myself doing this for Gtk apps because the
documentation is lacking. I visit git.gnome.org everday to see whats new
and read lots of code, usually on my lunch break.
4. **Read K&R, and do the exercises.** This book not only teaches C, it
teaches good old fashioned programming techniques. Not tremendously
useful when writing apps with glib, but still helpful.
5. **When I see crazy code that completely blows my mind, I don't let it
faze me.** This is so true for OOP in C (like gobject). It just make me
go
WTF some times. When this happens, I take a breath, and start at the
most logical point and work my way from there. I take lots of notes. And
grep, lots and lots of grep queries. When I still can't figure it out, I
hit google. The absolutely last resort is irc.

## C material

How to learn C?  Read and completely understand everything in The C
Programming Language (K&R) Brian Kernighan and Dennis Ritchie
Then, work your way through The C Puzzle Book Jeffrey Pratt to ensure
you understand the concepts (especially pointers)
Walk first.  Then run with the C glib libraries.  Then try GTk.  Then
tackle Object Oriented Programming, C++, Qt, Gtkmm, and wxWidgets

* K&R
* C in a Nutshell
* Advanced Programming in the Unix Environment (2nd edition)
* UNIX/POSIX bible


## Java material

* Effective Java Programming Language Guide from Joshua Bloch
* Head first design patterns

## Python material

* Python Cookbook
* [Python.org](https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/)
* Dive into python3

## About learn to program

**Eric S. Raymond wrote:**
I can't give complete instructions on how to learn to program here —
it's a complex skill. But I can tell you that books and courses won't do
it — many, maybe most of the best hackers are self-taught. You can learn
language features — bits of knowledge — from books, but the mind-set
that makes that knowledge into living skill can be learned only by
practice and apprenticeship. What will do it is (a) reading code and (b)
writing code.  [...]
Learning to program is like learning to write good natural language. The
best way to do it is to read some stuff written by masters of the form,
write some things yourself, read a lot more, write a little more, read a
lot more, write some more ... and repeat until your writing begins to
develop the kind of strength and economy you see in your models.

### Cyrusm - ArchWiki
honestly, I went to college and took a bunch of programming classes.
what I would suggest is to first find a language that you are
comfortable with (python and java seem to be a good place to get started
imo)  then I would concentrate first on learning basic data types (ints
doubles char string etc.) then learn how to manipulate more complicated
data structures (arrays and objects and what not)  and learn certain
useful complex data structures and algorithms (linked lists, doubly
linked lists, stacks, queues, sorting, searching).  the good news is,
once you learn the basic concepts behind all of these fundamentals, it's
relatively easy to translate them into other languages.  also, imho, I
would learn all of the above first before jumping into GUI programming.
there's no point in writing a solid GUI if you don't have a solid
program for it to interface with.
as with anything, however, it's mostly going to take hard work,
practice, time, and patience.  I've been programming for over 4 years
now, and I still consider myself a complete and utter n00b, and probably
will for several more years.

### tools

* Screen + Vim + javac/jikes/ecj
* allavi (gVim and Kate also work really well) and to compile I use
  SCons


Shell scripting - built into your shell. Very simple to use but follows
a rather interesting and highly loose structure.
PHP - many people will call you a wuss for using this, but I used it for
months and it was great. Its support for graphical programs is very
poor, so it's best kept to web- and shell-oriented scripting.
Ruby - this follows an almost English grammar, so is very readable and
learnable. On the other hand, it's known to be amazingly, amazingly
slow.
Perl - from how I've seen this used, I'd say that people would agree
with me calling this UNIX's scripted, interpreted alternative to C. Perl
is also written in Perl itself, which is quite a nice feature. You can
write almost absolutely anything in this, but don't expect it to be too
fast - Perl is quite a bit faster than Ruby, but not nearly as fast as
C.
Python - Google use this for their help center thingy, and so do a lot
of other projects. It requires you use indentation for formatting,
however, so you can't make one-liners with this. It's HIGHLY structured,
and from my perspective best for apps that need to be extended over
time.
C++ - not much I can say for this one, except that it's like C, but OOP.
C - this is THE definitive, de facto UNIX language. If you ever write
something remotely successful on a large scale that's small, fast and
stable, it will almost likely be in C, and will most likely have taken a
huge number of hours off of your hands before it was completed. tongue
Assembly - this is more complex than C. I won't discourage you from
having a look at the Wikipedia article on this, but don't worry if it
takes you a long time to "get" it tongue



## reference
[Python Challenge](http://www.pythonchallenge.com/)

[Project Eular](https://projecteuler.net/)

[Programming
Challenge](http://forums.justlinux.com/showthread.php?110160-Programming-Challenges)

[Java Passion](http://www.jpassion.com/portal/)
